George Haikal: It's interesting.
George Haikal: The microphone on its own.
George Haikal: Hello! Oh, beautiful! Hi, everyone!
George Haikal: Good morning.
George Haikal: So today we're gonna run through the last of the core business fundamentals.
George Haikal: So this is the last of Techstar's core business fundamental workshops. After that we'll get a little bit more custom and fun with each of you guys. But today we're covering the art of the elevator pitch. So you guys are pitching your businesses all the time. You're all selling on some level.
George Haikal: But we're gonna talk through different and how your elevator pitch more effective with the end goal being
George Haikal: to exercise that muscle of talking about your business
George Haikal: effectively your business is gonna change the circumstances you're talking about it in are gonna change and being able to communicate really, effectively in a bunch of different settings about your business is is just fundamental to.
George Haikal: you know, founder effectively.
George Haikal: So does anyone want to talk to me about what you think. An elevator pitch is
George Haikal: timeframes when you use it. Yeah, it's like 30 seconds.
George Haikal: Nothing in serious times.
George Haikal: Anyone else add on, okay, that's pretty perfect. So thank you.
George Haikal: So throughout program, we're gonna cover a couple of different types of pitches. And they're going to be very, very different to each other. Elevator pitch, which, like Alex said, is a quick 30 second pitch that is meant to communicate what your business does really quickly.
George Haikal: We've also got our Demo day pitch, which is, gonna it's a little bit of a different format that we do out here in San Francisco, and it's a lot of fun really targeted towards maximizing audience engagement
George Haikal: and sales pitches which are gonna look very different, depending on which clients you're working on. And they're gonna be really heavily informed by your jobs process. But today we're just talking about those elevator pitches.
George Haikal: So we've got these little learning objectives here.
George Haikal: building and refining a clear and compelling elevator pitch about your business. So this is not just for Ceos. This is, everyone in the company should be able to talk really succinctly about the business to a variety of stakeholders.
George Haikal: Making sure the pitch can be understood both by industry, people, and the everyday, like the classic elevator scenario, trying to explain what you're up to
George Haikal: and crafting really attention grabbing. So we want to make sure that people are interested to learn more, and are engaged with with what you're saying.
George Haikal: So
George Haikal: like, Alex said. He nailed it elevator pitches 20 to 30 seconds. Really? You want to use that as a way to get an invitation to continue the conversation so
George Haikal: really focused on on garnering attention, leaving people with questions leaving them wanting to dive in more. So super clear, super, concise, definitely your business's 1st impression. And you want that to be really, really memorable, especially in San Francisco with how crowded the startup space is, like everyone around you is a founder on some level. You go to a million tech events it's really hard specifically out of the sea of founders at all these.
George Haikal: So the goals of your elevator pitch we want to hit what your company does.
George Haikal: The problem you're solving. So framing things out, making sure people understand the space you're working in
George Haikal: the solution that you bring to the problem. What you're actually building the value you bring to your audience, understanding why you're charging for something.
George Haikal: and why they should care about your solution, why, you're different. So really high, level snapshot of your business that sparks interest and prompts further conversation. So
George Haikal: if you think about it a lot of times when you introduce what you're doing, you're not going to get particularly interesting questions. It's gonna be the hows and the what's
George Haikal: if you answer all of these questions effectively within your elevator pitch. Immediately the conversation becomes more interesting and engaging because you're not answering questions again, you're able to dive in deeper to more tactical topics within your business.
George Haikal: So at the end of your elevator pitch, you want people to ask good questions about your business.
George Haikal: not repetitive. You want to give people a chance to engage and dive in on a deeper level. Be excited about your solution and schedule a follow up if they're a target customer investor, whatever that may be so really focused on leaving a strong impression and making your audience want to learn more.
George Haikal: Okay, so 2 2 key steps. In a great elevator pitch. Does anyone have any ideas on what that 1st step would be?
George Haikal: Oh, okay. Anyone else.
George Haikal: Eye contact.
George Haikal: Okay.
George Haikal: Any other ideas.
George Haikal: Sorry, prioritize or concise.
George Haikal: awesome. Alright, tho those are all great answers. But we're gonna back up even further building a business
George Haikal: like to have something that's worth talking about. And you guys are all here. You're on that pathway. But you're not gonna have a great elevator pitch unless you have something.
George Haikal: So 1st 7 got a little star there. So you're you're well on your way.
George Haikal: But really, with any pitch scenario, the fundamentals and the foundation of that is going to be having a business that's worth talking about.
George Haikal: So, and number 2 tell people about it.
George Haikal: This should feel easy. We're going to give you some tips and tricks on how to make it more effective. But you're talking about what you're doing on some level. So the more organic and natural it feels, the better
George Haikal: it's just convincing people something that you already know that your business is awesome.
George Haikal: So to if if step one is done correctly, step 2 becomes really easy.
George Haikal: where where we run into problems is, if step one is kind of skipped over step 2 can really quickly become swooping gears like that's that's not what we're interested in. We're not interested in hiding things or massaging the truth. The more
George Haikal: transparent can be about the stage of your business, especially in San Francisco. People want to know, like what's far, and people like understand that at some level. So there's a more common language that you have access to in the city of people understanding
George Haikal: what the hurdles of building a startup are. So you don't have to loss things up as much so
George Haikal: as an example.
George Haikal: For for this workshop my elevator pitch could be for founders who need help finding investors, customers, or employees. I help craft compelling pitches so they can quickly get people excited about their business. So super simple, super quick, super easy
George Haikal: for you guys. You can probably make it a little bit longer. But just wanna hit those 4 main points.
George Haikal: and helping people understand what what you're doing.
George Haikal: Another key thing to remember while talking about your business is going to be very natural on some level founders do tend to underinvest in practicing their pitch.
George Haikal: Looking around like not everyone in this room is like super excited about pitching, and like Super, excited to get up on stage and and talk about their businesses. And that's fine. But how many of you practice your pitch for like 30 min
George Haikal: in the past, like week or 2
George Haikal: outside of like, yeah, yeah. Okay, well, pitch competition. Love it. Love it as you should as you should.
George Haikal: Okay, love it.
George Haikal: So we're we're gonna this is this is me teasing. I'm gonna make you pitch today.
George Haikal: But really really taking the time to make sure you're happy with how the language stands, and getting to a point where it feels really organic. Coming out is is gonna be really, really helpful. And this goes across goes across the board, especially for non CEO team members who
George Haikal: won't necessarily be on as many sales calls or won't necessarily
George Haikal: be the face of the business as much. You still really should take ownership and be able to speak about the business effectively
George Haikal: to whoever you may be talking to.
George Haikal: So
George Haikal: back to these common questions that you'll want to answer as much as you can. It can be really hard to get up in front of strangers. But typically, like, how many people get asked? Really useful, interesting questions after introducing their business.
George Haikal: L, yeah, yeah, awesome.
George Haikal: So the goal is to get to more of those interesting questions by answering the baseline stuff.
George Haikal: So on some level, these questions get pretty predictable.
George Haikal: Lots of patterns come up.
George Haikal: And with me talking to startups and and across the board.
George Haikal: people are, gonna ask you who your customer is? What's the problem you're solving. What's the product? What what form it's taking? Why should they care?
George Haikal: What's your traction? And what's the deal with your team?
George Haikal: So at a high level that that's the information that makes people feel like they understand what your business is doing at the moment. So if we're able to build a framework that answers these questions. We can develop an elevator pitch that gets across exactly what you want to to get to those most more interesting questions we're gonna dive into now.
George Haikal: So this here is something that we're gonna continue talking about for the rest of program.
George Haikal: but really pay attention to the questions to be asked. This is gonna be Antoine. Let's
George Haikal: we always say that hopefully keep it in or out backstone.
George Haikal: Good to know the hiss. Well, I won't jump in here, because this is this is key. So I call this the question bank. Anyone have a question bank?
George Haikal: No, somebody. Yeah. So what's your question bank. What does that mean to you?
George Haikal: How many do you have in your bank?
George Haikal: oh, okay, got it. So this is this is, I didn't know this, and I don't know if anyone else can relate. But I found this out from interacting with other like entrepreneurs, successful entrepreneurs, founders, or whatever over the years turns out that a bunch of us
George Haikal: all obsessively keep track of all the questions we could ask about our business.
George Haikal: And so I have a document, as many others do, with
George Haikal: literally hundreds of questions in it.
George Haikal: because I'll just write down every single question I ever get asked, and sometimes the question I write down is very similar to
George Haikal: another person's question. So when that happens, I just add
George Haikal: another tick to that one question.
George Haikal: So all of a sudden, over time I developed this heat map of the things that I get asked about the most. And sometimes I want to get asked about things. Sometimes I don't. So when I don't want to get asked about something, I make sure in my pitch elevator pitch all versions of it. I do my job to address that so that I don't get asked anymore.
George Haikal: So all of a sudden, now, I have a data driven and informed approach to talking about my company.
George Haikal: So this is your calling, I I will say, for every tech starts program I've ever run.
George Haikal: probably half or fewer of the founders end up doing this, but if you from this moment for me saying this, commit to documenting the questions you could ask about your business by the end of this program.
George Haikal: half of your demo day is already prepped.
George Haikal: I promise, because I don't know if you heard about my Demo day format, but it's a little different than a traditional text, it's Q. And a driven.
George Haikal: So all of a sudden, the most important questions that you will get grilled about from either a Vc central customer, whoever you're trying to appeal to those get addressed on stage.
George Haikal: So all of a sudden, the 1st meeting's done, and they're ready for meeting number 2 by the time you're off.
George Haikal: So commit to writing in all your questions. Build up the bank, and then, very, very strategically, figure out what to say to whom at the right time. Okay, cool. All right. Keep going
George Haikal: during mentor madness. You're going to be asked a ton of questions, and that's a really great reset point for people who haven't touched on their question banks in a while, and a really great starting point for people who don't have one. The same questions will get asked of you again and again.
George Haikal: and you'll be able to really quickly figure out what needs to be addressed in the elevator pitch. What needs to be brought up earlier in conversations about your business.
George Haikal: What questions you enjoy getting to spend more time on and holding off on so definitely plan, on having that built out on some level ahead of Mentor madness. So you can make full use of that. This is also a phenomenal tool, for during the fundraising stage. Every question investors ask you write that down, write thoughtful responses, and then, when you're in future meetings
George Haikal: and you get asked, follow up questions after the fact, you'll have this roster of answers. So you're able to get back to investors really quickly, which always just leaves a really good impression. Yeah.
George Haikal: yeah, just to just to add on this completely, there is no reason that an investor chats you a question that you don't know like you, you know. I think I think even a step before, like writing down questions people ask like you should come up with questions you think people are going to ask.
George Haikal: You should have a question bank of like leveraging every possible permutation of ways. People can spin your business, model your market sizing, like all sorts of you know the future of your business, your competitive landscape, like you should know this inside and out. And then when people ask you questions, I think that's a different bank of like, you know, seeing what comes up the most and kind of tracking it. But I think also, like with Llms like you guys should be able to play around and say, like.
George Haikal: you know, ask me 200 questions about one company, and like, Get some inspo there, and really just push on it like that's, is it? You know. Just get as much as possible like questions, and be really thoughtful about your answers, because there's no reason you should go to pitch without getting a thousand percent of the questions that they answer like you should know them at the pitch. Of course, if you don't. That's fine. But like
George Haikal: you should, you know, I think you have a lot of there's a lot of tools right now to like prep. So yeah. And then, obviously, you know, keep track of. But I would put it all on Gemini, Gbt, and I would just be like asking 400 questions about my business and get really granular, like.
George Haikal: I love that. Yeah,
George Haikal: especially in the AI space. There's like everyone, there's a million people trying to do everything. So there's gonna be some firm startup out there, no matter what, no matter how you are. How do you answer
George Haikal: with the gotcha questions of like, have you heard of these people doing this? If you have not heard of these people doing this?
George Haikal: Okay? So I mean before Chloe and the team respond. I'm curious to know, like, say, you guys want to help each other out real quick? That's a good. That's a great question.
George Haikal: Yeah, no, I I because we we get that question all the time. So it's nice. I mean, there's there's lots of ways to to do it. So 1st thing is, I know the company they're mentioning or not. So that's kind of what they mentioned it.
George Haikal: But most likely, even if I know the company, what I would say is, it's a very attractive space. And there's there's a very significant competition. What do you like about this
George Haikal: about about them? So that gathers information about? Have they heard about it, or whatever? So I don't even address the question, I answer with a question
George Haikal: and
George Haikal: and that's typically, does the trick honestly in a, in a, in a, in, in a general conversation. If their message is, it's a very kind of
George Haikal: competitive space. You've basically validated the point they wanted to say, which is, it's very competitive. You've also conveyed that you embrace competition, and you welcome competition, because maybe there's a reason. Maybe you're a little bit better, etc. Without disclosing any specifics.
George Haikal: Then, when I get, if if that doesn't do the trick, it's all about, instead of my saying it's better. It's like, it's
George Haikal: what we love about our product is that our customers choose us over.
George Haikal: And typically for a company that I don't know or that I don't. I? I will commit to for mentioning them. I'll I'll look at the I'll look at what they're doing, etcetera. But but that's about it. So that's kind of the the steps. And we've done that multiple multiple times. And often the answer is like, Yeah, we don't know. We just had them like typing in what we've done.
George Haikal: So it just has to be like, oh, I've heard about this. Someone told me about this monthly.
George Haikal: So so mostly the the key point is not conveying a dismissiveness of the question being asked, etc, just a huge validation of Well, you you know what you're talking about. Then also asking, Tell me more
George Haikal: and and kind of
George Haikal: instead of kind of explaining why you're different, etc, which is going to be complicated. And and is it the time to explain why you're different? You don't even know why they're mentioned, so
George Haikal: I would give counter advice and say you should say, why, you're different, like, if you actually know the company. Yeah, I know that. But the problem with that bottle is this, here's how we're different, you know. Try to separate yourself if you can. You actually know that you should separate yourself.
George Haikal: Good answer. I thought right like sucks, and like there's so many people in every single city.
George Haikal: They always get very stupid, possibly
George Haikal: actually help someone understand? Oh, actually, not with somebody who's
George Haikal: that follow up
George Haikal: kind of any of the thought to share. Here, too.
George Haikal: empathize, be honest and be yourself.
George Haikal: So empathy is first, st like, okay, think about why they're suggesting. Have you heard of this? Have you thought about this depending on who's asking whether it's an investor or the other? Any other context? First, st understand what they're trying to, you know, kind of gap sounds like they're trying to draw contrast. They may think of something either vaguely familiar, or they may think that you're underprepared right? Because you don't know about something that they know about that might be important for you to know. So
George Haikal: be
George Haikal: honest, meaning if you haven't heard of them. No, I haven't. But all of a sudden there's curiosity, there's energy. There's excitement. Because I would want to know who else is doing something in my space want to learn from them.
George Haikal: There's more players that's validation. There's more I can learn, and I want to demonstrate my excitement to discover and then be yourself, which is, if you're curious and excited and competitive person, Chris, we talked about that like being, you know. Competitive is a good signal, right? So all of a sudden you want to say, Oh, yeah, I want to know about them. I'm going to dig in. We follow up and think about this, or I want to talk to about. You know there's some energy that you kind of exude that shows that you're kind of excited rather than
George Haikal: oh, well, we're better because of this, or they're they're not as good like. I'm much bigger on complementing what I know if I do know them, and if I don't know them demonstrating like a genuine excitement that have another player in the same space.
George Haikal: Right? That's like, I think, in my experience, in like venture conversations. And beyond. That's the kind of founder energy that we're looking.
George Haikal: Yeah, someone else is solving this like, really? Well, please tell me I'll join them. No, no, that's exactly right. And that's how you start. Right? So most of you are starting your businesses or building your businesses because you saw a need.
George Haikal: Right? So there was a reason why you decided to do it, even though there were other people trying to solve it before you.
George Haikal: So why you and no one else. So if your reason is, I just want to be an entrepreneur and on my own company. That's not a very good reason.
George Haikal: but a better reason is is what's out there isn't good enough.
George Haikal: I have a very clear point of view and conviction about what I want to do, and I want you to know about it. And if there's other people in the in the, you know, in the same race as me, awesome. Let's all run like let's do it together. One of us will win, or all of us will. I don't know, but I know I'm going to be
George Haikal: so. If you come off like that, people get really excited about it.
George Haikal: 100% as long as it's again empathize.
George Haikal: Be honest, be yourself.
George Haikal: I've never said that before. It's off the dome, but you know you have for free. I think the worst thing you could ever say if someone says, What's a competition is saying, there's no competition
George Haikal: like they stop taking notes. They just keep nodding like you have to acknowledge that exactly what Neil said, and also be like the space is huge. There's so much opportunity. There's all these areas that haven't been disrupted like this is why we're like in a win. And like, there's so much, you know, there's there's there's a lot of space for everyone here, and like we have a real standout
George Haikal: stand up thing. And but I would say, like, you know, try and meet it. Keep keep! Keep a pulse of like what's going on. Who's investing in your company? Says a thousand like it's so public like what companies are up and raising, and make sure you have an answer to like what is your competitive wedge, and make sure it's a good one, and then we'll help you, you know, narrow it down, but it has to be like legit, you know. You can't just say, Oh, you know we're a good team, and you know it's like kind of the same thing like it has to. You have to be like, no, no like it's it's better.
George Haikal: And there's a huge market for this. I think the you know kids these days talk about aura stuff like that. But like that, you kind of have to have it. You got to have some swag you got to go like, look like if it's something you know, you can talk about. Like, Oh, yeah, yeah, they're good. This is what they're good at. But this is why I'm doing this, and why I still believe in what we're working on different than them, or I haven't heard of them, but I'm really excited to get to know them. But I will tell you why I started this business, because there's a whole sea of them, and there's going to be many more after them.
George Haikal: But here's why we're going to be different today. And just to give you context on like the background. Like.
George Haikal: you know, whoever you're talking to, analyst associate partner, whatever like, they're going to take notes, and they have to present the company in an investment. So we're going to talk about this more in like fundraising series that we have. But they're the ones who are going to go in front of their entire team, and they're going to be asked the same question, why is this company different? And they need an answer. And, like, you know, you need to give them a really compelling reason like that, like, hey? You know, they convinced, like they really are different. There's a huge wedge here, and then they're going to do their own research, and it's going to come back
George Haikal: equal. You know what I mean, like it has. You have to feel like I've done this much research like whatever like spends.
George Haikal: you know, whatever a lot of time it was, one company and diligence would come up with the same thing. So I would, I would be very thorough there, and I'd actually push back on, like maybe asking them a question as a follow up. It's not a bad strategy, but I think an even better strategy is just like coming in with a really hot answer, and like bringing a lot of positivity and energy like just pushing it back, sort of puts it in a conversation in a different direction
George Haikal: versus like, it's an easy question to win, and just like if you have a really tight answer. They're like, cool. All right. Let's talk about traction. It's an easy check, you know.
George Haikal: Yeah, but practice it again like I wouldn't just do chat, gpt, or whatever I would also like. We also talk to each other like talk to each other, grill each other.
George Haikal: come up with competitors, identify them. Get people on the spot like you guys are all in the Dojo together. You can. You can do this. What's up
George Haikal: you that the information you've said set shared already is incomplete.
George Haikal: Right? Because if a company files for bankruptcy, that's interesting. First, st my 1st reaction is okay. That's interesting. Tell me more. Why.
George Haikal: So you need to know the story. You need to be able to very like succinctly break that down and explain to me what happened.
George Haikal: Well, well, so so again, like I said, like.
George Haikal: understand what the flaws were in their approach to business. It's not enough to just know from a newspaper headline, or from a little like research, say, actually track down people who worked at this company. I spoke to people at the sea level. I understand the decision making that went into it. I've identified a lot of the flaws. There was a ton of opportunity and decisions they could have made differently. I've learned from that, and I'm really excited to move forward.
George Haikal: Did you talk to people at the sea level there?
George Haikal: okay, got it? Alright. That's what I'm saying, though, like, like, basically for every like important impact question, you guys are, gonna get about your business, overdo it with your research and your preparedness, overdo it, know too much show and demonstrate and signal to them that you know way more than they do about anything that they can ask you about the space industry, or your business or any competitors within.
George Haikal: and if you don't know something, be honest about it, but be extremely eager and enthusiastic to signal to them that you're gonna come correct in your follow up after this conversation to more thoroughly respond to what they asked about that you weren't quite prepared for in that moment.
George Haikal: Right. There's always a way to do that one of our
George Haikal: go green, and they literally want a green light.
George Haikal: They failed. But then the CEO was actually really receptive to me like, Hey, look like I saw this happen. I've been building similar space, but I'd love to know like what the mistakes were, and he was like, Yeah, sure thing. Because then, coming back to saying like.
George Haikal: we're passionate about building on the space, he's also passionate about the firm being sold. Because I look.
George Haikal: this happened. They essentially just like raise and sudden acquisitions that went wrong. She was like, don't focus on that should be receptive to just explaining what happened.
George Haikal: all of your students to the game. So just be here enthusiastic like I'm studying and paying attention to everything that matter. That's gonna affect my business.
George Haikal: Cool. Go ahead, Chloe. Sorry we we totally went off.
George Haikal: I'm also really interested to see who's asking the different questions, because it feels like the responses from this crowd are almost
George Haikal: answers to different people asking that question. So
George Haikal: I'll I'll talk to you guys about that later.
George Haikal: cool. Okay, into the framework. So this was developed by Ryan Kruder, Md. Of Techstar, San Diego.
George Haikal: Long, long time Md. Close friend of Neil's really great guy. So he uses a framework developed around the idea of a story and a narrative. So does someone want to give me a favorite movie?
George Haikal: Oh, sorry avatar, which avatar avatar is your favorite movie. What's your favorite movie?
George Haikal: Yeah, the basics, the matrix. Okay?
George Haikal: So I'm not
George Haikal: good luck.
George Haikal: Avatar is a really good airplane movie point.
George Haikal: Okay, so looking at this sort of movie framework, we've got characters.
George Haikal: Let's let's talk through this in the context of the matrix, give me the the main character.
George Haikal: Okay, what's the conflict.
George Haikal: simulation or reality? Okay, he's like trying to figure out what world he's living in. And the plot like, how does he get there?
George Haikal: I don't know if he runs around in a trench coat like there's glasses and stuff
George Haikal: beautiful. Okay? And then what's the victory?
George Haikal: Amazing. Amazing. So how do we bring this in to your business?
George Haikal: So the characters gonna be your customers. You're telling your your customer story through the pitch the conflict will be the problems that the customers are facing and the plot will be your solution. How you move them through that problem
George Haikal: and the victory is the value that they get out at the end. So really easy framework to to place your business within to make sure you're answering those key questions.
George Haikal: And it's a really great way to give the pitch that narrative weight and make it a little bit more exciting.
George Haikal: So
George Haikal: we want to talk a little bit more about introductions here, so you'll meet. You've met already, but we'll he'll be. He'll be coming back. He has some some thoughts and feelings on how introductions should land within a pitch.
George Haikal: I believe the phrase was, my eyeballs will fall out of my head if I hear another. Hi, I'm so and so, and I'm doing such and such. He's really not a fan of that so just double tapping that we really want to get people hooked in before you introduce yourself so definitely introduce yourself. That is, that does need to happen with the within the context of the pitch. But you need to give them a reason to care who you are first.st
George Haikal: So next step pitching and then sticking the landing. So just like gymnastics, you want to land in a really solid spot. Where? Where your your next steps in the conversation are lined up.
George Haikal: You want action items. You want a strong conclusion moving through that.
George Haikal: So within the introductions, name, title, and company, understanding your role within the business
George Haikal: and then getting into the pitch more directly.
George Haikal: So does this look familiar to anyone.
George Haikal: Alright who who do we? Who do we have on the left?
George Haikal: Yeah, he is a plumber, and he's got an important job to do along the way Mario finds some power ups.
George Haikal: Which is this flower?
George Haikal: What happens when he eats the flower or jumps into the flower?
George Haikal: Come super far fire. Mario!
George Haikal: He goes to twice his normal size, becomes invincible can throw fireballs. It makes him makes it easier for him to get where he wants to be. So this is the sort of framework we're we're looking at to tell our customer story. So the customer has your job to do as a job to do whether it's an Hr. Executive
George Haikal: a car dealership, whatever it may be.
George Haikal: They need to to get to that super fire. Mario win the game mode. So
George Haikal: that benefit and value is is gonna be the end game there.
George Haikal: So baseline framework doesn't necessarily have to look like this? Exactly. But
George Haikal: does this look familiar to anyone?
George Haikal: Yeah, where have you seen it before?
George Haikal: Sorry?
George Haikal: Yeah. Yeah. But where else?
George Haikal: Our company boards?
George Haikal: Yeah, why, why is that the format we give you for the company blurbs.
George Haikal: It's jobs.
George Haikal: Oh, okay.
George Haikal: yeah. So elevator, there's there's a lot of synergy jobs is going to continue popping up. But it really answers a lot of those core questions.
George Haikal: So
George Haikal: for video game plumbers who are attacked by Gumas, we make this crazy fire flower so they can be invincible and chew fire and win. The game doesn't necessarily have to form. Follow that format. But it should answer these 4 questions.
George Haikal: And then, finally, we want to stick the landing
George Haikal: like Simone biles here. Memorable components at the end really help cement you in the minds of the people you're talking to grabs their attention keeps them curious whether it's a story fact, statistic, whatever it may be. You really want them paying attention to the pitch, not their phones, or whatever else is going on around them. So
George Haikal: some examples of how you can do this
George Haikal: showing how your product or solution is adaptable to different audiences and situations relatable. So your audience can connect more directly with your problem space and what you're solving, emotionally engaging, if that's something that like works within the realm of your business. And attention grabbing, we really want to make sure that people are plugged in and
George Haikal: excited to to continue learning more.
George Haikal: Yeah, that's kind of a two-parter. So we are gonna like throughout program, talk about pitching to different audiences. But in this context here it's more. This is your chance to be a little bit more visionary and speak about how your business can apply in different scenarios. Show like how you're forward looking
George Haikal: versus like while it's still acknowledging where your business is right now. That makes sense. Actually. So if you're like in front of an investor, you would say differently in front of, like some other people, you would say differently
George Haikal: it within your team, and just like pitch it everywhere that you can. So. But this makes more sense. Actually, it has to be adaptable and then change based on different.
George Haikal: Yeah, different people have different questions, potential customers care about how you can help them more immediately. Investors will care more about the long term vision. So we're gonna like through jobs and through iterations. We're gonna talk about how to speak to different audiences succinctly. But at a baseline. Now we want, like an easy elevator pitch that you can like, deliver at events, introduce yourselves easily.
George Haikal: But it's it's definitely something that's gonna take tailoring to different audiences
George Haikal: kind of like a solid line lost them.
George Haikal: Thanks.
George Haikal: Finish everything like I will work with these massive clients.
George Haikal: Beautiful!
George Haikal: Alright
George Haikal: on that topic. If you've got traction, talk about your traction. Make people understand why, this is important. Build credibility in any way you can. Again, San Francisco super crowded with a bunch of startups and a bunch of founders. The more weight you can give. The the more you're going to stand out, the more memorable you're going to be.
George Haikal: You like, like Neil always says, come, correct like, make sure you're you're giving that way to your business. That's
George Haikal: that people deserve to know about
George Haikal: in terms of what to do with like a yeah, what that means.
George Haikal: So if you don't have a ton of existing traction, you'll have to lean more on the vision
George Haikal: and talk about what problems you're trying to solve. Lean into that and make it clear that even though you don't have a ton of money in the bank, you don't necessarily have all the Logos on your deck.
George Haikal: you have to make people believe that you're you're on your way.
George Haikal: But what would you mean like, yeah.
George Haikal: or important to you and to the people you're going to help. Well, 1st of all, I just want to acknowledge, like I love when you ask, clarify questions like, I wish more people did that, because, like, when you see something you're like, what does that actually mean? You heard words that were helpful. But like, you're not quite sure. Always dig in like, let's unpack to make sure we're on the same page. What we're talking about here. So I love that you do that. But I think this is a very important point. So that's why I'm so grateful that you called it out.
George Haikal: If it's not impressive, most of them aren't yet right. You're interesting, right? Your businesses are interesting, but impressive, would be. We're already crushing it. We're killing it. We got a ton of customers making millions of dollars whatever. That's not quite where we're at. So the way you make it important right now is by framing the opportunity. Right? You're you're painting this picture of what the world could be like when you win
George Haikal: right. You're showing what the stakes are for the customers, how dramatically beneficial things will be for them. How exciting it could be if I'm an investor talking to you, you want it to be important to me, because this is gonna be a million dollar business. If it's a stakeholder or customer, or someone you're trying to get bought in, like to hire. That's really key for you. You want them to feel like by joining your company. They're gonna change the world. This is more meaningful than whatever they're doing now. They have to take a pay cut. They got to make trade offs. I'm stoked because this is a actual cause that I want.
George Haikal: Right? So there's like, almost like a another version of this is like, people will say, like the fear of God. But the whole idea is that there's some sort of emotion you're activating in people by framing what's important about your business to me?
George Haikal: You do. Yeah. One person.
George Haikal: Actually, we've done a few in the past here.
George Haikal: So what what happens when something goes wrong in the the business that you, the businesses that you serve your customers.
George Haikal: So for optifab right? If there's an issue with the manufacturing, what happens? What's the worst thing that could happen. What's an example? Oh, yeah, right? That's been happening lately.
George Haikal: That's what I'm saying. So what are the stakes? I'm literally manufacturing hardware for airplanes in aerospace tech. Hello! That's very important. When it goes wrong. It goes really wrong.
George Haikal: You have a ton that you can like frame that could be very impactful and important. The storytelling part is really important, I would say. But you just told me healthcare is always winning, because that's a problem that people can relate to. And you just told me that you work on airplanes.
George Haikal: Got it? That's alright. We'll do it.
George Haikal: Should we add it, or do I get longer
George Haikal: satisfaction?
George Haikal: Yeah. So
George Haikal: we have these core questions in black, in green. If you have the time to get into it, that's where you should get into it. I would say, like, in my
George Haikal: personal like, this is my personal point of view. Traction is probably the next most important thing you'd want to add on because it tends to be the 1st question people ask after an elevator pitch is like, Okay, where are you at like you have customers. What's what's happening? So being able to answer that and having control over how you speak about that versus answering whatever question people like. However people may frame it.
George Haikal: I would prioritize that once you hit the foundation here.
George Haikal: But yeah, definitely talk about traction. If there's time depending on the scenario.
George Haikal: Yep.
George Haikal: Also, I mean, it seems to me that we have some latitude on picking whatever works best for our specific company, our specific state, etcetera. And so
George Haikal: so I think the better. Leave something out and be super
George Haikal: key. Then then try to check all the boxes, or at least
George Haikal: that's what I I failed in the beginning
George Haikal: by trying to say everything people don't care about everything absolutely not. They just want kind of a reason to keep listening. That's it.
George Haikal: absolutely, absolutely. Yeah. These are these are more guidelines. And like a bit of a menu, not a prescription.
George Haikal: Okay? So you don't follow this to a team you don't just formulate. We import this information based on your business. That's super generic. That's what everyone else does. That's not interesting. So if you think of the most memorable pitch you've ever heard.
George Haikal: right? Or the most impactful elevator pitch or founder pitch or story, think about that. I actually just wrote a message to the team just now, asking them to start a thread for all of you to share this. So I'm asking you not to just talk about it. But I actually want to see in the next week what you all think. If you have any references here for us to draw inspiration from. But the idea is like.
George Haikal: if you're unique and you want someone to assume that you're going to be successful where others aren't.
George Haikal: then it starts with how you introduce yourself. It starts with how you storytell. For the 1st minute it starts with the that 1st impression, the energy you bring off so
George Haikal: make sure that you put a lot of thought and effort into
George Haikal: how much you're practicing. Introducing yourself now more than ever you are in San Francisco. This is the hotbed where everyone here's a startup pitch every single day. I could go across the street right now into a coffee shop and find 3 companies trying to pitch and raise capital. So you guys are in the lion's den of startups. So you better like find ways to differentiate yourself. And one very easy way is just how you introduce yourself and talk about your company.
George Haikal: Such a low hanging fruit opportunity
George Haikal: in terms of other elements you can add a personal story if you have. You all have connections to your problem space. But if you have a really quick, clean narrative that you can share in a couple of words that further connects you to the problem. Space that's great.
George Haikal: throw some numbers at people if they're memorable, succinct and easy to understand.
George Haikal: Any trends that you're drawing on and building off of
George Haikal: these are great ways to grab attention right at the start.
George Haikal: And again
George Haikal: double tapping on this. It's just incredibly important lean into any legitimacy. Really, really focus on on building that up in such a crowded market.
George Haikal: And we're gonna take a quick glance at some examples here, and then finally set the mic down.
George Haikal: So, looking at this one here.
George Haikal: These are from Foundercon a year or 2 ago.
George Haikal: Do I just read it out loud?
George Haikal: Sure.
George Haikal: at walkwise, we focus on people who use mobility aids, because, despite being only 11% of the senior population. They account for 40% of falls. And all of us have someone in our lives that are part of this 7 billion dollars domestic market. If you're a senior care organization today, you're being asked to take on more and more of the financial risk for these people's health care costs. And you're doing that while short staffed and people want to receive their health care at home. So that's why we invented walkwise and wheelwise.
George Haikal: Okay, what are they doing? Well, here?
George Haikal: Yeah.
George Haikal: that relatability, personal story
George Haikal: showing the risks on the business side. Why, why people are buying along with the personal story.
George Haikal: And you understand what they're doing right?
George Haikal: No, no, okay. There
George Haikal: don't know the product.
George Haikal: I'm not sure. Honestly, I'm not sure if this is a physical mobility aid. Or if this is a
George Haikal: Yes, yeah, cool. Let's look at another one.
George Haikal: If you're like 84% of Americans, you have a credit card. But unless you're already using our app, you're probably not getting the full value out of them. Maximizing the value of your credit cards is cumbersome and tedious. You have to continuously activate all of your offers and benefits. Figure out the best card to use for every purchase and stay on top of all of your cards. It's just too much of a hassle. So most consumers lose out on thousands of dollars worth of value. Our solution is automation.
George Haikal: What do we like, not like.
George Haikal: I don't like the solution to be a little bit crisper.
George Haikal: It's not a long paradox, and to me, at least, maybe gets lost.
George Haikal: Yeah. And it's a little buzzwordy like, it's
George Haikal: it doesn't really say much about the solution.
George Haikal: Yeah, feels relatable.
George Haikal: Yeah, yeah, this is like, you understand how it fits into your daily life you're thinking about like, oh, I actually don't know which card gets more points on this purchase like
George Haikal: it's easily understandable for a layman, and
George Haikal: it also showcases the market size as well through that cool.
George Haikal: Yeah. At the same time, I don't care about my points. I care about saving my. So it's like, it's kind of like a it's kind of like a in between. There's a group of people who really care about points and stuff. But that's like, not like.
George Haikal: Still, like the underlying thing which is like, I'm trying to even save money, or I'm trying to like
George Haikal: get access to a exclusive club or something like that. So customers lose out on thousands of dollars worth of value.
George Haikal: Okay, okay, okay, alright. I have a quick, quick comment on this, because.
George Haikal: I I know this is like a core tech stars workshop content. Sorry we're we're everyone's like sharing this across all the programs. But what I'll say for us in this room, and probably always over in New York.
George Haikal: we can do better right? I think there's much better pitches and references out there. This is gonna start. So this offers a lot of what Chloe just went over as a framework checks all the boxes
George Haikal: right. But is it compelling. Is it exciting? Is it memorable? Is it framed in the context, it just for which this isn't doing right now in this format it's not saying, okay? Well, you're in a room of mentors in a new community in your 1st week of tech starts. And you're trying to get people to get on your team and get on board, or this is when you're introducing yourself at an investor networking cocktail event. Or this is that an actual pitch? So there's different circumstances and audiences that you frame this pitch to.
George Haikal: I think this is important. If you need to introduce the market size right away.
George Haikal: I think there's a better way to frame this if you're trying to appeal to
George Haikal: a consumer. And I think there's an even different way to do this. If you're talking from purely like a you know, later stage due diligence investment when you're at the final Gp meeting, and you need to again pitch your business from the jump. So there's so many different ways to have variations and versions of your pitch for whatever job you're here to do for how you want to like, explain your business and introduce it. And there's also a way to like structure your pitch so that you force
George Haikal: the listener to be curious about or to ask questions on a particular subject, because you're deliberately either leaving something out or highlighting something that you don't quite give the full story about. But you're hinting at it, or kind of forcing their hand to inquire further, so you can take way more control of what happens from your listener or your audience. If you are very kind of surgical about the different variations of your pitch and your mastery of how you explain those and speak about.
George Haikal: make sense
George Haikal: awesome?
George Haikal: Does someone want to give this a go?
George Haikal: Everyone's gonna give it a go. Who wants to start us off, though?
George Haikal: No, no. So here's the thing you're in an elevator man. You just got an elevator, and I'm like, Oh, cool! You got a business like, what do you mean? You have a business. So whatever you have. Now, there's no judgment. We're just gonna have fun like you're gonna get up. And you're gonna talk about your business room
George Haikal: like
George Haikal: Mike Mike. Yeah, I want, I want the recording to pick it up. So you guys can understand the Delta in 3 months.
George Haikal: Alright cool. So
George Haikal: brand marketers waste hundreds of hours and thousands of dollars in creating all of their content for all of their digital channels. I'm talking specifically photos and videos. I saw this firsthand. I used to be a professional skier, and then I worked in retail consulting. So both sides of the coin, and I know just how hard it was for all of these brands to find the right people all over the world to create the right content.
George Haikal: So what our platform does is that it's able to build custom production teams anywhere in the world for brand marketers so that they can usually reduce production costs by up to 30% time by 70% and improve performance along engaging rates and click through rates by like 3 to 5 times
George Haikal: we've been at it for over 3 years now, working with clients like Ibm, Zurich Insurance, Mandarin, Oriental Skyscan Bay of pharmaceuticals and a whole lot of others. We've all come back. A 100% client return rate, and all our clients increase their spend by now 5 times, so don't worry.
George Haikal: That's time. Good job.
George Haikal: Think what we should do is we should take notes of feedback. But I want to hear more pitches. So let's cycle through before we give you thoughts and feedback.
George Haikal: Yep, but that was that was a that was a good start.
George Haikal: What's up next?
George Haikal: I'm not following that up. Let's go.
George Haikal: Great.
George Haikal: Just take a note to get feedback
George Haikal: small teams, and especially non developers.
George Haikal: Waste 12 or more hours a week trying to do competitive analysis or market research.
George Haikal: and they are looking for ways to be more scientific and rigorous in their process of evaluating prices, evaluating leads, evaluating data that they can find regularly online.
George Haikal: The problem is
George Haikal: while they see a website in front of them, they can't get it into an actionable structure for them to be able to do further analysis or put it into additional automation stacks downstream from the website they see in front of them.
George Haikal: Existing tools like chatgpt or perplexity, unfortunately, do not give you full access to websites or content, and harvest gives you that complete information, but also puts it into a structure that you can act on immediately
George Haikal: all through using simply an AI chat. You don't need to be a developer to be scientific and rigorous in your market research
George Haikal: 1 min. Thanks.
George Haikal: I want to try to get through as many as possible.
George Haikal: All right, man, let's do it. I'm just gonna start kicking on people.
George Haikal: Hello, Hi, everybody! My name is May Hall. I'm here from sales. Play sales. Play is an AI powered platform that helps enterprise or b 2 b companies break into strategic accounts and win more 1 million dollar deals.
George Haikal: and then we have about 10 customers. All of them are from the Akkr portfolio companies, and we have a lot of great success stories where our customers are invest in investing in us
George Haikal: cool
George Haikal: next up, I'm gonna do, Vivian, Anthony. And we're just gonna go back. We're just gonna
George Haikal: Hi, everybody. How many of you have already stressed before an interview. Just raise your hand.
George Haikal: Okay, okay, like half. Thank you. Thank you. Half the crowd. Some of us were not sure. So the job market is being overly complicated right now we hear about some people being let down.
George Haikal: People don't know how to get the job. And it's the most important thing that you're gonna do is is where you're gonna spend most of your time
George Haikal: and most of your money.
George Haikal: But you don't know how to get them.
George Haikal: Brio solves that for you, and we are starting with universities because students are the most impacted by the changes in the business world.
George Haikal: We use AI to make you prepare for job interviews with personalized and relevant actionable advices.
George Haikal: So it helps saves at least 3 h and gives you access to to the jobs of your dreams, to your dream jobs, right?
George Haikal: So we are already partnered with 10 schools to help the students. And we've seen an increased rate of the interview lending by 20%.
George Haikal: Hey?
George Haikal: Our shopping sucks. Everybody knows this, but we don't know. It actually sucks for the salesperson as well. They have to give you an amazing customer experience, using the same pen and paper tools that they've been using for decades. And right now, if you're not a good salesperson, you get frustrated, you don't sell enough, and you quit. And actually, dealerships will flip up to 80% of their sales teams every single year. It is a huge waste of time and money
George Haikal: may build a sales enablement tool that helps you guide your car buying experience in the dealership the same way your real estate agent helps you find your dream home.
George Haikal: What we do is we match your customers, profile to vehicles in your inventory, and we actually help salespeople sell 10 cars in their in their very 1st month, unlocking $500,000 in revenue, in potential opportunities for an average size dealership with 10 people.
George Haikal: Thank you.
George Haikal: At. Really, we eliminate the need for on-site appraisers.
George Haikal: We consolidated home inspections and appraisals by providing home inspections and then leveraging the inspection data for appraisals. We're able to save up to 3 weeks in closing time and up to $1,000 per transaction.
George Haikal: Everyone. My name is Chris, and across the United States lawyers spend 12 HA month.
George Haikal: tracking their time and putting what they did into their signed invoices.
George Haikal: This is time that they frankly can't build to their clients time. They much rather spend practicing the law, and frankly, time they will never get back. So legalese, we're on a mission to giving back lawyers time for what really matters. And we're doing that by building an AI agent that automatically tracks what you do.
George Haikal: puts it into your invoice so that lawyers can focus on practicing the law. And we're trying to reduce what is typically 12 h to just 1 h every month for a lawyer.
George Haikal: Hi. So at dreams, we are building the data tool stack to power, biomedical AI applications. How many of you have seen at least one of your family members or relatives struggle due to misdetection or lose a life because of false positives.
George Haikal: Like all of us, right? Radiologists across the world are really struggling to make sure that diagnostics are accurate, right? But I, as a founder, strongly believe in the potential of AI to solve for critical diseases like cancer at power, other medical breakthroughs. But for AI to do that we need really solid data foundation. If the data is broken, unstructured and not optimized for AI,
George Haikal: it will not work like the AI cannot work, so trins is the platform that solves the data and deployment challenges to power AI applications and to make the accurate diagnostics or precision medicine a reality. Thank you.
George Haikal: Hey? Last, but not least, Eric, we'll have you go to if you're interested.
George Haikal: Okay.
George Haikal: parts manufacturers like Neil, losing millions due to like human errors in manual quality control optifab is providing an AI Saas solution, that defect identify defects before they happen. So unlike traditional manufacturing methods and quality control
George Haikal: that identify defects after they happen. So optif has a Saas solution that can control defect before they happen. And it would automate quality control and make it affordable and also more efficient.
George Haikal: So B, 2 B distributors and manufacturers who sell technical products to technical people, spend countless hours ingesting, organizing and normalizing product information. The source of truth is often a Pdf.
George Haikal: And ultimately you want to be able to display the right product to the right customer at the right time.
George Haikal: and that's what copy is solving.
George Haikal: So Kavia is starting by this building selling experiences that can be embedded into existing e-commerce platforms that can help these folks display technical box in better ways.
George Haikal: ultimately helping them grow. Gmv. And market
George Haikal: awesome. By the way, Derek's a guest from New York. He's a part of the program kicked off this week. But he's in town. Lives, I think, locally. So. We invited him to hang out with us for the week.
George Haikal: So final thoughts we can run through.
George Haikal: So we are at time. If you need a meeting conversation, because it's 2 min over, please do that. But I would love to wrap up with a few minutes of thought.
George Haikal: Yeah, main thing. Practice this. We're going to ask you to do it again tomorrow in front of more people. If you're not happy with how that showed up, do some reps. Well, we have more than that. Usually. What we've done historically is we don't tell the founders that that happens. And it just we just put them on the spot. So that's what we've done for years. Last program. I switched it up, because, you know, we're in a new market, and it's
George Haikal: I don't want anybody to have egg on their face. So we're giving you a day of prep. So what you just said you're gonna have to refine in the next 24 h, because tomorrow night there's gonna be a room full of people. You're gonna have to introduce yourself to them
George Haikal: right? So now it's time to get it right.
George Haikal: So I already asked the team. If you want to do it. We'll post a recording of this immediately, or as soon as possible, get the transcript of what you just said.
George Haikal: refactor, refine it, revisit it. Practice it, because tomorrow night I want to be good, cool other people.
George Haikal: We we can after like 2 final thoughts here that we can talk about. Yes, yeah. So high level. You want people to be interested in you. You want their permission and curiosity to carry on the conversation.
George Haikal: really want to put that personal spin on it. In. In the pictures we just saw, the personal stories really worked. The connections to the problem. Spaces really worked relatability works. Really. Make yourself memorable on on this front and practice.
George Haikal: Yeah, most pitches suck, like most of them, are boring and not interesting or memorable, or fun to listen to. To be honest with you like. That's how I feel most of the time, especially out here. So so let's do the work to like actually make it fun like one. It should be fun for you to talk about your business. You should be jazzed. You should be enthused like I get to spend a bit of time on my business. I can't wait. I love what I do right. That energy needs to come off. But then 2 like
George Haikal: how you do anything, how you do everything. So has anyone ever had a meal at like a Mission Star restaurant?
George Haikal: Anybody
George Haikal: half the room, maybe a few more. If you haven't, let's go. I know a couple of spots. My tree, but
George Haikal: For those who have what separates that experience from like a a normal or regular restaurant.
George Haikal: any quick reactions? Yeah, like, what's an example? What detail like.
George Haikal: I don't know. Like the source.
George Haikal: the the meal itself right like the dish. But then there's also the details around it, too, like they notice. If your forks misplaced, they'll see if something falls on the ground if you need it, you know, like there's a level of awareness in addition to detail that goes into the experience right?
George Haikal: The same deal with introducing and talking about your business.
George Haikal: There's a level of awareness and attention to detail that certain special founders exude that others don't. So our job over the next 3 months is to hone every aspect of your business, so that those details are acknowledged and trained in okay, starts with the pitch goes on to many other.
George Haikal: I'm good.
George Haikal: Okay, alright. So we're in bonus time. So we're over time. So if you need to leave leave, let's give each other feedback. So I don't know if you want to start with a particular pitch. Do you want to give feedback, or do you want to receive it?
George Haikal: Well, which one. Do you want first, st
George Haikal: or or ask people to pick on you?
George Haikal: Hi, guys thought it was really short. I thought, your picture is really short
George Haikal: way too short. Okay.
George Haikal: what? What was more striking for me? I was like, I have less than a hundred companies I need to talk to. And then, of course I need to spend every minute like really owning what that company is doing, and and understanding what they did, and that number stuck in my head.
George Haikal: I don't know why is that it's definitely.